README.md, before:

# Writing Linux Device Drivers in Rust
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/lizhuohua/linux-kernel-module-rust.svg?token=gQ3MGp1DXsVespCpQBDg&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/lizhuohua/linux-kernel-module-rust)
## Requirements

### Toolchain

* `x86_64`

    Rust nightly. Tested on `nightly-2018-09-30-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu`.

* `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)

    Rust nightly. In addition,  you need to install the new target:
    ```bash
    $ rustup target add arm-unknown-linux-gnueabi
    ```
    And the `arm-linux-gnueabihf-` cross-compiler.

### Linux Kernel Headers

A pre-built kernel (with configuration and header files) is needed.

* `x86_64`

    Your Linux distribution should provide a package for this. For example, on Ubuntu, you can try:
    ```bash
    $ sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
    ```

* `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)

    You need to [compile your own kernel](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/linux/kernel/building.md) in order for `bindgen` to work.

## Build

1. `cargo-xbuild`, `rust-src` and `rustfmt-preview`
```bash
$ cargo install cargo-xbuild
$ rustup component add --toolchain=nightly rust-src
$ rustup component add rustfmt-preview
```
2. Select an example
```bash
$ cd hello_world
```
3. Compile into a static library
    * `x86_64`
        ```bash
        $ RUST_TARGET_PATH=$(pwd)/.. cargo xbuild --target x86_64-linux-kernel-module
        ```
    * `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)
        ```bash
        $ RUST_TARGET_PATH=$(pwd)/.. KDIR=<path-to-your-compiled-kernel> cargo xbuild --target armv7l-linux-kernel-module
        ```
4. Link as a kernel module
    * `x86_64`
        ```bash
        $ make
        ```
    * `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)
        ```bash
        $ make TARGET=armv7l-linux-kernel-module KDIR=<path-to-your-compiled-kernel> CROSS=arm-linux-gnueabihf-
        ```
5. Load and test

    See below.
6. If you want to clean it up
    * `x86_64`
        ```bash
        $ make clean;cargo clean
        ```
    * `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)
        ```bash
        $ make clean TARGET=armv7l-linux-kernel-module KDIR=<path-to-your-compiled-kernel> CROSS=arm-linux-gnueabihf-;cargo clean
        ```

## Load and Test

### hello_world
The simplest kernel module. It just prints "hello" and "goodbye".
```bash
$ sudo insmod helloworld.ko # load the module
$ sudo rmmod helloworld # remove the module
$ dmesg # dump kernel messages
```

### yes_chardev
A simple character device which is similar to the `yes` Unix command.
```bash
$ sudo insmod yes_chardev.ko
$ cat /proc/devices # find the major number of the device 'yes', for example, 243
$ sudo mknod /dev/yes c 243 0 # make a filesystem node (replace 243 with your own major number)
$ sudo cat /dev/yes # read from the device
$ sudo rmmod yes_chardev
```

### simple_sysctl
A simple sysctl device driver.
```bash
$ sudo insmod simple_sysctl.ko
$ cat /proc/sys/rust/example/test # the default value should be 1
$ sudo sh -c "echo 2 > /proc/sys/rust/example/test" # change the value
$ cat /proc/sys/rust/example/test # now the value is 2
$ sudo rmmod simple_sysctl
```
There is another way to read/write the sysctl value:
```bash
$ sysctl rust.example.test # read
$ sudo sysctl -w rust.example.test=2 # write
```

## sync_example
A simple example to illustrate the use of `Spinlock` and `Mutex`.
```rust
let mutex_data = sync::Mutex::new(50);
let mut data = mutex_data.lock();
println!("Data {} is locked by a mutex", *data);
*data = 100;
println!("Now data is {}", *data);
println!("Hello from Rust!");
```
The above code snippet will output like this:
```bash
[  424.328154] Mutex is locked!
[  424.328156] Data 50 is locked by a mutex
[  424.328158] Now data is 100
[  424.328158] Hello from Rust!
[  424.328160] Mutex is dropped!
```

## smsc95xx
A highly simplified real-world device driver for [LAN9512](https://www.microchip.com/datasheet/LAN9512) USB to Ethernet controller, which is used on Raspberry Pi 3. The implementation resembles the [C version](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/drivers/net/usb/smsc95xx.c).

Commit message:

add introudction and refer to the ares paper

README.md, after:

# Writing Linux Kernel Module in Rust
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/lizhuohua/linux-kernel-module-rust.svg?token=gQ3MGp1DXsVespCpQBDg&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/lizhuohua/linux-kernel-module-rust)

Device drivers on Linux-powered embedded or IoT systems execute in kernel
space thus must be fully trusted. Any fault in drivers may significantly
impact the whole system. However, third-party embedded hardware manufacturers
usually ship their proprietary device drivers with their embedded devices.
These out-of-tree device drivers are generally of poor quality because of a
lack of code audit.

We propose a approach that helps third-party developers to improve the
reliability and safety of device drivers without modifying the kernel:
Rewriting device drivers in a memory-safe programming language called Rust.
Rust's rigorous language model assists the device driver developers to detect
many security issues at compile time. We designed a framework to help
developers to quickly build device drivers in Rust. We also utilized Rust’s
security features to provide several useful infrastructures for developers so
that they can easily handle kernel memory allocation and concurrency
management, at the same time, some common bugs (e.g. use-after-free) can be
alleviated.

We demonstrate the generality of our framework by implementing a real-world
device driver on Raspberry Pi 3, and our evaluation shows that device drivers
generated by our framework have acceptable binary size for canonical embedded
systems and the runtime overhead is negligible.

More details about the design and implementation can be found in our paper: 
[Securing the Device Drivers of Your Embedded Systems: Framework and
Prototype](https://mssun.me/assets/ares19securing.pdf).

## Requirements

### Toolchain

* `x86_64`

    Rust nightly. Tested on `nightly-2018-09-30-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu`.

* `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)

    Rust nightly. In addition,  you need to install the new target:
    ```bash
    $ rustup target add arm-unknown-linux-gnueabi
    ```
    And the `arm-linux-gnueabihf-` cross-compiler.

### Linux Kernel Headers

A pre-built kernel (with configuration and header files) is needed.

* `x86_64`

    Your Linux distribution should provide a package for this. For example, on Ubuntu, you can try:
    ```bash
    $ sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
    ```

* `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)

    You need to [compile your own kernel](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/linux/kernel/building.md) in order for `bindgen` to work.

## Build

1. `cargo-xbuild`, `rust-src` and `rustfmt-preview`
```bash
$ cargo install cargo-xbuild
$ rustup component add --toolchain=nightly rust-src
$ rustup component add rustfmt-preview
```
2. Select an example
```bash
$ cd hello_world
```
3. Compile into a static library
    * `x86_64`
        ```bash
        $ RUST_TARGET_PATH=$(pwd)/.. cargo xbuild --target x86_64-linux-kernel-module
        ```
    * `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)
        ```bash
        $ RUST_TARGET_PATH=$(pwd)/.. KDIR=<path-to-your-compiled-kernel> cargo xbuild --target armv7l-linux-kernel-module
        ```
4. Link as a kernel module
    * `x86_64`
        ```bash
        $ make
        ```
    * `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)
        ```bash
        $ make TARGET=armv7l-linux-kernel-module KDIR=<path-to-your-compiled-kernel> CROSS=arm-linux-gnueabihf-
        ```
5. Load and test

    See below.
6. If you want to clean it up
    * `x86_64`
        ```bash
        $ make clean;cargo clean
        ```
    * `ARMv7` (Raspberry Pi)
        ```bash
        $ make clean TARGET=armv7l-linux-kernel-module KDIR=<path-to-your-compiled-kernel> CROSS=arm-linux-gnueabihf-;cargo clean
        ```

## Load and Test

### hello_world
The simplest kernel module. It just prints "hello" and "goodbye".
```bash
$ sudo insmod helloworld.ko # load the module
$ sudo rmmod helloworld # remove the module
$ dmesg # dump kernel messages
```

### yes_chardev
A simple character device which is similar to the `yes` Unix command.
```bash
$ sudo insmod yes_chardev.ko
$ cat /proc/devices # find the major number of the device 'yes', for example, 243
$ sudo mknod /dev/yes c 243 0 # make a filesystem node (replace 243 with your own major number)
$ sudo cat /dev/yes # read from the device
$ sudo rmmod yes_chardev
```

### simple_sysctl
A simple sysctl device driver.
```bash
$ sudo insmod simple_sysctl.ko
$ cat /proc/sys/rust/example/test # the default value should be 1
$ sudo sh -c "echo 2 > /proc/sys/rust/example/test" # change the value
$ cat /proc/sys/rust/example/test # now the value is 2
$ sudo rmmod simple_sysctl
```
There is another way to read/write the sysctl value:
```bash
$ sysctl rust.example.test # read
$ sudo sysctl -w rust.example.test=2 # write
```

## sync_example
A simple example to illustrate the use of `Spinlock` and `Mutex`.
```rust
let mutex_data = sync::Mutex::new(50);
let mut data = mutex_data.lock();
println!("Data {} is locked by a mutex", *data);
*data = 100;
println!("Now data is {}", *data);
println!("Hello from Rust!");
```
The above code snippet will output like this:
```bash
[  424.328154] Mutex is locked!
[  424.328156] Data 50 is locked by a mutex
[  424.328158] Now data is 100
[  424.328158] Hello from Rust!
[  424.328160] Mutex is dropped!
```

## smsc95xx
A highly simplified real-world device driver for [LAN9512](https://www.microchip.com/datasheet/LAN9512) USB to Ethernet controller, which is used on Raspberry Pi 3. The implementation resembles the [C version](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/drivers/net/usb/smsc95xx.c).
